[How are the HDB blocks selected for solar PV installations?]
These blocks were assessed to be suitable for the installation of solar PV systems, as they meet the structural and technical requirements. For example, such blocks receive sufficient sunlight to enable the solar PV systems to operate efficiently and effectively. HDB announced in 2017 that solar-ready roofs will be rolled out in all future HDB blocks with at least 400 sqm of open roof space, where feasible (after setting aside space for essential services such as water tanks, water pumps and lift rooms). With advances in solar PV technology, HDB is looking into installing solar panels at all HDB blocks where feasible.

[For blocks that are not selected/suitable for installation, will there eventually be solar panels installed?]
With advances in solar PV technology, solar panels can be considered for installation at all HDB blocks where feasible. 

[What happens to the installed solar panels if there is en-bloc/SERS?]
If HDB blocks installed with solar panels are subsequently identified for SERS, we will work with the solar vendor to relocate the solar panels to other HDB blocks to allow the solar panels to continue generating solar energy to power HDB blocks. 

[How long is the lifespan of solar panels? What happens at panel end of life (will solar panels be removed, or will new panels be installed)?]
Solar panels generally have a lifespan of 25 years. The Power Purchase Agreement between the Town Councils and solar vendor typically last for 20 years with an option to extend for five more years. At the end of the contract, the solar panels are removed from the rooftops. 

[What is the type of solar panel technology used?]
The industry standard for solar panels has been improving since the start of the SolarNova programme in 2014. Monocrystalline PERC (Passivated Emitter and Rear Cell) panels, which can convert around 20% of sunlight into electricity, are now widely used by the solar vendors.  

[How much does the system cost the Town Council?]
Under the Solar Leasing model, Town Councils do not pay any upfront cost for the solar PV systems procured in the SolarNova tenders. The awarded vendor will finance, install, operate, and maintain the solar PV systems. In return, Town Councils pay the vendors for the solar electricity generated at a preferential rate compared to the SP tariff. 

[How much cost savings have been derived since the programme started? With the solar panels, how much does the Town Council save? Will the savings be passed on to residents in the form of lower service and conservancy charges?]
The solar energy harnessed is used to power common services in the HDB estates like lifts, lighting in common areas and pumps, helping town councils to moderate increases in operating and maintenance costs due to inflation. We estimate that Town Councils save about 30% off their electricity tariff bills for common services with solar panels installed.

[Can the residents tap electricity directly from the solar panels installed on their blocks roof?]
Current regulations do not allow residents to directly tap onto the solar energy produced by the solar PV installation on the block. Solar energy is first used to power the common services of the HDB block, with the excess then exported to the grid.

[Is the electricity generated from the solar panel system sufficient to power the common services in the block?]
On average, the electricity generated by the solar panel installation on a typical block is sufficient to power common services in the day. 

[Why is there no electricity storage on the residential block rooftop?]
The solar PV systems installed on HDB blocks are grid-tied. This means that the solar energy generated is first used to power the common services of the HDB block, and any excess is then exported to the power grid for use elsewhere. If there is insufficient solar energy due to cloudy or rainy weather, the block will still draw power from the power grid, and there is no disruption to the block power supply at all. As such, there is no need for an electricity storage. 
In addition, electricity storage systems are costly, and do not make economical sense to be included along with solar PV installations at this point in time. 
However, as more and more solar panels are installed nationwide, the intermittent nature of solar energy generation will have an increasingly larger impact on the stability of the national power grid. To address this, EMA announced on 22 Oct 2020 that they have worked with industry and HDB to install Singapore’s first utility-scale energy storage system (ESS) at a substation and distributed ESS at the Punggol HDB estate. These will help to address grid-wide intermittency challenges of solar energy due to cloud cover and rain, and maintain the stability of the power grid when solar PV installations are affected by weather changes. The project will also provide insights to demonstrate how ESS could be deployed effectively across Singapore.

[Can solar panels be installed on MSCP top decks/can residents install solar panels for own household use?]
It is possible to deploy solar panels on the top decks of MSCPs, but there are other initiatives competing for space on the top decks of MSCPs, e.g. greenery and urban farming. HDB will have to prioritise internally and work with the different stakeholders to decide on the best use of space. MSCPs are generally low-rise so we would have to consider the effects of shading from nearby high-rise blocks. Residents who wish to install solar panels for their own household use can check with their HDB Branch Office.